# AWS Snowball Edge  
Snowball Edge is a physical, ruggedized and shippable self-contained data storage and compute appliance that is designed to deliver 99.99% data durability. It enables organizations to move large volumes of data in and out of aws cloud. Snowball edge can be used as a standalone device or clustered together to provide data mobility at petabyte scale. Each snowball edge device includes onboard compute capabilities that enable data collection, data manipulation and data preparation activities at the edge. Data can be collected and later imported into the AWS cloud or used as a standalone operation without import. The onboard compute capabilities enable customers to extend the power of the AWS cloud to their local environment and add the functionality required to create a wide variety of solutions to meet their needs.  
  
## What can a Snowball Edge do for you?  
The snowball edge appliance is a multipurpose device that can be used to enhance your connection to the cloud and perform edge use case processes. You can use it to simplify transporting large datasets to and from the cloud. Snowball edge enables you to expedite migration your data to the cloud. You can use a snowball edge as a standalone device to store the data at a remote location. You can simply redirect application storage to this device without changing your application logic. You can use multiple devices to form a cluster for increased capacity and data durability. You can also use Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute or EC2 instances and Lambda functions to perform compute operations and process data at the edge for local use before importing your data into the cloud. This functionality enables you to perform activities such as field analytics, log processing, data tagging, data transformation, and datat organization.  
Data is stored in the Snowball Edge in an S3 compatible format. The S3 compatible data can be directly imported into an Amazon S3 bucket in the AWS cloud or exported from a bucket in the AWS cloud for local use. You can use the Amazon S3 Adapter for Snowball to programatically transfer data to and from the Snowball Edge device using a subnet of Amazon S3 REST API calls. AWS Snowball Edge supports NFS version3 and NFS version 4.1 protocol. You can start using a Snowball Edge cluster with a minimum of 5 nodes and expand the size of cluster upto maximum of 10 nodes. The available usage storage capacity per node is reduced when clustered altogether.  To gain the higher durability, the data is protected across multiple clustered appliances. Clustering also adds to the available compute resources to service your applications use case needs.  
  
### Snowball Edge Model Options
Snowball Edge Storage Optimized  
Snowball Edge Compute Optimized  
Snowball Edge Compute Optimized  with Graphics Processing Unit  
  
### Snowball Edge Job Types  
Snowball Edge enables three high-level primary customer use case scenarios, importing large datasets to the AWS cloud, exporting large datasets to from the AWS cloud, and local data collection and processing. Each Snowball Edge is pre configured for a single use case and can be used for only one job at a time. If you have multiple use case requirements, multiple locations or multiple job occurrences, then you'll need to create multiple Snowball Edge orders and jobs to meet your needs.   
  
#### Snowball Edge Use Cases
1. **Offline Data Collection:** Snowball Edge is useful when large volumes of data are generated and quick and cost effective transpot is difficult. Customers may also want to consume the data locally for a short time after it's generated. For example, researchers on an airplane, ship or submarine might capture detailed scientific or environmental data for immediate analysis before sending the data for further analysis to the cloud. In this case, data collection and processing is required. The data is securely stored, high speed and reliable connectivity to the cloud is unavailable, and the job occurs for a limited duration before uploading the data to the cloud for later use. 
2. **Local Tiering and Compute:** A Snowball Edge cluster can support workloads independent from the cloud when connectivity is intermittent or latency is vitally important, such as in medical facility. A healthcare customer integrated Snowball Edge with their MRI systems. The code that interfaces with and manages the MRI image retrieval system also runs on the Snowball Edge cluster. If connectivity to the outside world is lost, the MRI machines continue to function and store data on the Snowball cluster. A copy of the data can later be rotated out of the AWS cloud after several weeks.  
The use of Snowball Edge enables a hybrid cloud implementation with specific local processing and secire import of data to the cloud for retention and security. 
3. **Local data transformation:** In many use cases, raw data must be stored, analysed and transformed to extract or produce new information. An example is large scale physical document scanning and OCR. The raw scanned document images are sent to the Snowball Edge,OCR is performed on the Snowball Edge, and the text is stored alongside the image. The Snowball Edge has enough compute capacity available to conveniently perform some or all compute work before arrival for import into the AWS cloud. Another similar example is thumbnail generation, tagging and resizing for image applications.
4. **Internet of Things:** Snowball Edge provides a platform for collection and analysis that can capture a raw data stream and quickly react. Consider an industrial wind farm where sensor data from the windmill is streamed to the Snowball Edge and Lambda functions are used to examine the data streams for anomalies, to aggregate metrics, and to send alarms or control signals. The raw data is staged on the Snowball Edge cluster and later sent to the AWS cloud where it joins the larger overall dataset. 
  
## Client-Example
Philips Heathcare develops technology solutions for customers, patients, providers and caregivers across health continuum, from supporting healthy living and prevention to diagnosis, treatment and home care. Phillips collects and processes patient data in over 1200 intensive care units. It collects and analyzes the patient data to help predict and provide actionalble data to healthcare providers. In some cases, the healthcare providers need to respond in seconds. The provios solution was to have multiple servers and local storage in each hospital. The challenge was building, maintaining and managing the infrastructure and systems for high availability and reliability. The solution with AWS is to embed Snowball Edge devices in their hospital networks to collect data and initialte realtime analytics. The analytics are performed using Lambda functions in real time, and now the hospital staff no longer has to wait for answers. The Snowball Edge implementaion provides a local dataset to run on in case of connectivity issues and enables secure upload of colder data to aws cloud for retrieval and compliance retention.  